---
layout: chapter
title: Implementing a Researcher's ACI Plan
prev: 03-engagement
next: 05-assistance
icon: Ch4.png
redirect_to:
    - https://aci-ref.github.io/facilitation_leading_practices/activities/04-aci_plan
---

<a name="toc"></a>

*Working with researchers to establish longer-term paths for the use of
ACI capabilities for specific research projects, as needed. Following-up
with researchers proceeding through a plan. Working with ACI resource
providers for expertise and to accommodate necessary technical
solutions.*

1. [Introduction](#introduction)    
2. [Goals & Organization of ACI Plans](#plans)    
    2.1 [Organizing the Approach](#plans-approach)    
    2.2 [Creating Actionable Tasks & Milestones](#plans-tasks)    
3. [Communicating ACI Plans with Researchers](#communicate)
4. [Utilizing other Other ACI Staff](#staff)
5. [Regular Evaluation](#evaluation)

<a name="introduction"></a>

# Introduction

Often, when working through an engagement meeting with a researcher, it
will become apparent that multiple steps will be required to achieve
their end goals.  To capture the requirements and major steps of taking
the researcher from the engagement meeting to a realized research
product that utilizes key cyberinfrastructure components for scaling and
acceleration, an Advanced Cyberinfrastructure Plan (ACI plan) is
necessary.  An ACI plan’s purpose is to capture all the general or
specific goals and then break those down into actionable tasks and
possibly a rough timeline.  The ACI plan can be thought of as a document
for project management that can be to be utilized by the researcher and
the ACI team.  While developing a plan the Facilitator should keep in
mind that this is a partnership and both sides must be invested in
achieving the end goals.  It should also be noted that not all
engagements will result in a formal ACI Plan as some resolutions will be
as simple as issuing a ticket or emailing a researcher.

In this section, the concept of the ACI plan will be further defined and
discussed along with some implementation best practices.

<a name="plans"></a>

# Goals & Organization of ACI Plans

An ACI plan provides a framework to incorporate ACI resources into a
researcher's workflow.  To this end, an ACI plan serves to:

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>Capture the requirements for a researcher’s utilization of ACI
resources</li>
        <li>Organize the approach that the ACI team and researcher will cooperate
on for the project</li>
        <li>Define the actionable tasks for both the ACI team and the researcher</li>
        <li>Document the current state of an ongoing engagement with a researcher
for a specific ACI-dependent project</li>
        <li>Provide historical documentation of progress</li>
        <li>Capture a timeline for major milestones</li>
   </ul>
</div>

ACI plans can be formal, in the form a defined document with multiple
sections and details, or can be informal, as in many cases, involving
only  email (perhaps ticket-based) correspondence to captures details
for a researcher, after an engagement.  The design and makeup of the ACI
plan is primarily up to the ACI team, since they will be responsible for
executing or coordinating most of the tasks involving ACI resources. 
Keep in mind that ACI plans can also be used for spotting researcher
needs, whether it be the need for additional education, capacity or a
different type of resource that is not currently being offered.  When
creating a new ACI plan with a researcher, a Facilitator may run across
tasks or requirements seen in previous plans, and may leverage the same
approaches and staff involvement.  In this case, it may make sense to
combine efforts for a particular portion of multiple ACI plans, this
will also ensure that an overarching solution is more generalized across
domains and potentially more reusable in the future.

Keep in mind that a major goal of the ACI plan is to establish a path by
which your ACI team will be able to have the largest positive impact for
the researcher in the most effective timeframe that is plausible.

<a name="plans-approach"></a>

## Organizing the Approach

There are a number of typical issues that a Facilitator may address with
a researcher which should be kept in mind when co-creating an ACI plan,
including knowledge gaps, technical roadblocks, resource access issues
and lack of expertise. To that end, these topics are discussed to
illustrate common areas your team should focus on during and prior to an
engagement.  Note that not all areas will be relevant in regards to
generating an ACI plan many will fall primarily into one focus.

### Education of researcher
 
A sustainable means of aiding a researcher in accelerating their
research with ACI resources is to establish a set of training materials
on how to access and utilize fundamental pieces of ACI. Materials can be
disseminated in face-to-face meetings, on websites, or at workshops and
seminars provided by Facilitators or external presenters.  Anytime an
individual can be empowered with the ability to find the solution, new
avenues of capability open up for the researcher; this may also free up
human ACI resources to focus on more challenging tasks.  A few examples
of this are:
<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
<li>HPC/HTC training for setting up software and submitting jobs to local
and national resources (XSEDE, OSG, NCAR, etc.)</li>
<li>Basic scripting or programming for automating analyses or creating
pipelines (bash, Python, Perl etc)</li>
<li>Science Gateway usage.  Training users how to access and utilize
online science gateway sites that perform computation and data
dissemination, such as CyVerse and others
([https://www.xsede.org/gateways-listing](https://www.xsede.org/gateways
-listing))</li>
</ul>
</div>
Additional ideas and training recommendation can be found in the
*[Education and Training](../06-education)* chapter.

### Identifying and Resolving Technical Roadblocks

Depending on the research needs and the institution, your team may run
across more mundane obstacles in the completion of a research project. 
Storage quotas, network bottlenecks and firewall access are a few common
examples. Even when your team is not responsible for basic
infrastructure at your institution, Facilitators are encouraged to serve
as a liaison between the researcher and responsible technical department
to help resolve the roadblock.  This liaison role can be pivotal in
moving along the research project because ACI team members often have
more technical knowledge of issues such as networking or storage than
the researcher, and can better communicate with IT professionals on
technical issues.

<img class="non-captioned size300" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/detour.png" alt="Bob teaching"/>
Connectivity and networking issues are frequently hurdles. For example,
the ability to move around very large datasets in a reasonable amount of
time is a hurdle that many of the current ACI-REFs have run up against. 
Often, working with IT professionals at our institutions, or at the
institution with whom the researcher is collaborating, is the proper
route to resolution.  So keep in mind some of the basic network
bottlenecks, but be aware that there may be technical issues you are
unaware of if you are not tied directly into your IT department; a
discussion with them should be a priority when dealing with these issues
and could save you a lot of running around.

Another issue that is cropping up more frequently is the management of
data.  A terabyte of data is no longer uncommon for intermediate and
even end results of computer simulations and bioinformatic analyses. 
The minutiae of managing all this information can slow down researchers
who just want to get their work done. However, they are the responsible
stewards for their research products and their data use may be governed
by their university’s Institutional Review Board, their grant’s Data
Management Plan and/or other regulatory policies and legal restrictions.
By keeping this in mind, the ACI team can create a list of viable
solutions that can be leveraged to help the researchers with the influx
of data, be they local or offsite.

### Access to external resources

Depending on your institution your ACI organization may or may not have
a large number and variety of local resources available.  In either
case, you will not be able to meet all the needs of all researchers at
your institution with only local resources.  Therefore it is essential
that you remain aware of other resources that are available, both those
in other organizations at your institution as well as the national
resources established specifically for this purpose by by granting
organizations.  If you are not aware of many of the most frequently used
option you can find a list in the *ACI Knowledge* chapter or on the
ACI-REF website
([http://aci-ref.org/](http://aci-ref.org)).  Keep in mind that getting access to these
resources is only half the solution as the other part is actually
enabling the researcher to utilize them effectively.

### Partnering with others

As you identify ACI and research needs that go beyond the scope and
expertise of the researcher and your team, you will often need to
partner with other departments and entities.   Your team should not be
adverse to this, as some areas of expertise take years to acquire; it is
also another way to scale your interactions, if the partner is willing
and able to assist in a way that contributes to the end solution.  A
good set of pointers and ideas for collaborating with other groups is
outlined in the *Connections* chapter.  For ACI plan purposes keep in
mind the groups that you might frequently need to work with work to
establish and maintain those interactions/partnerships.

<a name="plans-tasks"></a>

## Creating Actionable Tasks & Milestones

The major step in the development of an ACI plan is the definition of 
the actionable tasks and major milestones for in depth projects.  As
previously mentioned most ACI teams do this in a way that fits with
their existing workflows and infrastructures, although some have adopted
more robust organization and tracking so that they can use some of the
ACI plan for metrics/tracking and reporting.  Some quick examples of how
an ACI plan can be created:

### Spreadsheet or Document Method

This is simply a shared document or spreadsheet with the necessary
fields to capture a researcher's interactions and necessary tasks. 
Google drive, Dropbox, Box, Office 365 as well as wikis are some
examples of ways to make these documents easily shared and accessible
for a group. Each plan may have it’s own sheet, with the goals at the
top and the rows for tasks, which may be checked off or colored to
indicate some level of progress or completeness.  The benefit of using a
shared document is that it is lightweight and easily accessible to
anyone; and hosted sites require no local infrastructure for support.
Additionally, these documents can be accessed via URLs from other
documents.  There are shortcomings of this method, however: Documents
can become unwieldy if you have many plans or researchers contributing;
searching can be a challenge, as can harvesting metrics and trends; and
there are rarely built-in notifications or reminders.

### Redmine Method

Redmine is a software project management tool with issue tracking,
wikis, documents and organizing around projects and subjects built in. 
The University of Hawaii has been using this method for organizing their
ACI plans.  Individual projects can be created for the various research
projects and the wiki can be used to capture the requirements and other
items.  Tasks can be broken down into project issues and organized into
particular milestones.  One of the advantages of Redmine is that is has
user, role based access so a researcher can be given access to the
project to view progress (if they desire).  Time tracking is also
supported, which is useful for seeing time invested on a project or
necessary for chargeback to grants or billing in some cases.

### REDCap Method
 
REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture,
[http://project-redcap.org/](http://project-redcap.org/)) is an tool for
building and managing online surveys and databases. The Center for High
Performance Computing (CHPC) at the University of Utah has set up a
project in REDCap in order to track user interactions as well as to
administer user surveys.  While other methods (see Basecamp, below) are
used for complex ACI Plans that require steps and/or the involvement of
multiple ACI staff, the REDCap project is useful when the interaction is
between the Facilitator and researcher.  In order to use REDCap, the
individual project must be designed.  At CHPC the project was designed
to pull in the user demographic information from our databases given the
user ID or name, to allow for multiple interactions and also for notes
on the interaction.

### Basecamp Method
 
Basecamp is a commercial tool (see
[www.basecamp.com](http://www.basecamp.com)) for project management
licensed by the University of Utah. It allows for the definition of
projects and "to-do lists" which include task lists, task assignments,
and due dates.  Basecamp also has the ability to post comments and
updates as well as to upload files  have discussions centering about a
given project. A history of a given to-do list is available as are all
records associated with completed projects.  CHPC uses this tool to
manage internal projects, including those associated with working with a
user or user group.

### Ticket System Method
 
This method just leverages an existing help ticket management system to
capture actionable tasks.  It should work well for a team that already
uses it for task tracking.  Depending on features it may or may not be
possible to have documents internal to the system but most systems
support urls in tasks description or comments so it would be possible to
link url documents for google drive or some other cloud storage document
system.  Most ticketing systems support tags and searching so tracking
some activities and metrics would likely be simpler than the spreadsheet
method - many systems do have built in reporting as well.  Some examples
of ticketing systems in use are JIRA, Redmine, Request Tracker and
osTicket.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="communicate"></a>

# Communicating ACI Plans with Researchers

Once an ACI plan is created and vetted by your team, you should present
it to the researcher and solicit feedback.  With simple, informal
plans, an email that outlines the tasks and responsible parties for
each task is sufficient and the above tools will not be required.  For
more complex projects a more formal presentation is necessary, ideally
in a meeting, where it is easier to capture additional questions and
ideas from the researcher.  Organizing the ACI plan into a few slides or
a single physical document for easy review is recommended for a formal
presentation or, if you are using a project management system like
Redmine, walking through the project’s roadmap and issues is prefered as
it introduces the tool and interface to the researcher.  Be aware that
the manner in which you introduce the ACI plan can impact your
credibility and the impression of professionalism that researchers will
have towards your group. Additionally, remember to communicate who is
responsible for what tasks, as well as which tasks will depend on other
tasks.  Finally, establish expectation for the time-frame in which
individual tasks occur versus the estimated end date for solution
success.  In our experience as Facilitators, we have found that it can
be difficult to estimate completion times for certain technical tasks,
and so we recommend overestimating times and then (if possible)
delivering early. In addition, if the completion of the tasks will be
delayed, keeping the researcher updated and informed is crucial.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="staff"></a>

# Utilizing other Other ACI Staff

In constructing ACI plans, it will often be necessary to solicit advice
from others and to depend on their expertise when you are trying to
identify appropriate solutions: You, the Facilitator, are not expected
to know everything. When you run into those situation be sure to utilize
your network of contacts from various fields and ACI resource centers. 
The *[Interfacing with ACI Providers](../09-interface)* chapter has some pointers on
how to establish contacts and initiate collaborations.  Just keep in
mind that your team is not alone in devising solutions, just as you are
not responsible for providing all ACI services or resources.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="evaluation"></a>

# Regular Evaluation

A solid best practice in managing interaction with researchers is to
check in at certain intervals to follow-up on the progress of ongoing
engagements and ACI plan implementation as well as following up to
evaluate the success of completed implementations.

For ACI plans in-progress, the team should internally review the
projects every week and perhaps review with the researcher once a month.
 However, this all depends on the workloads of both your team and the
researcher, and the amount of progress that has been made.  At the very
least, sending periodic updates to communicate that work is
on-going never hurts.

A good time to follow up on completed ACI plans is around eight weeks
after completion. At this point the researcher will have had time to
work with the solution and might have additional questions or thoughts. 
After that, a follow-up every six months is a good idea as the PI’s
research may have evolved or they may have started a new project.  Being
proactive is always a good practice so that you can prepare for and
anticipate need.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

