---
layout: chapter
title: Facilitating Researcher Connections
prev: 07-aci_knowledge
next: 09-interface
---

<a name="toc"></a>

*Promoting opportunities for peer-learning between researchers. Aiding
in the formation of informal and formal collaborations. Liaising and
matchmaking between users and ACI resource providers, where appropriate.*

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Overall Strategies](#strategies)    
	2.1. [Maintain Knowledge of the Researcher Base](#base)    
	2.2. [Build Connections around Topics](#topics)    
	2.3 [Encourage Self-Sustaining Connections](#self-sustaining)
3. [Coordinate Knowledge Exchange Between Researchers](#knowledge-exchange)
4. [Promote the Formation of Communities](#communities)    
	4.1 [Gauge Interest](#interest)    
	4.2 [Establish Group Goals and Format](#goals-format)    
	4.3 [Facilitator Participation](#participation)
5. [Formal and Informal Collaborations](#collaborations)
6. [Utilize Relationships with Other ACI Staff](#other-staff)

<a name="introduction"></a>

# Introduction

A facilitator is one of the few individuals with a broad awareness of
research efforts across their user or ‘client’ base. As a result,
facilitators are not only poised to identify and liaise potential
researcher connections and collaborations, but should feel obligated to
do so. In this chapter, we discuss overall strategies for realizing
common research interests and practices among researchers, as well as
specific types of researcher-to-researcher interactions that a
facilitator might help to initiate. This facilitation of research
networks is likely to enable researchers to become more effective in
their work -  not just with respect to their use of ACI resources - and
to pursue research opportunities or collaborations that may not have
been considered otherwise. Therefore, the potential impacts of such
connections mean that facilitators may indirectly enable research
transformations, beyond directly working with researchers in their
specific use of ACI resources.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="strategies"></a>

# Overall Strategies 

Generally, the facilitation activities discussed in
previous chapters will enable facilitators to easily identify connection
opportunities and to carry out the logistics of bringing together
researchers for various purposes and in varying degrees of formality.
However, there are additional, specific approaches that ensure the
greatest potential research impact as a result of facilitator-enabled
human networks. These will enable a variety of interaction types,
including casual information sharing between two graduate students, to
multi-member groups that meet regularly, to formal collaborations. Based
upon the experiences of participating ACI-REF organizations, we describe
in this section some strategies that have been successful across
interaction types that are discussed later in the chapter. 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="base"></a>

## Maintain Knowledge of the Researcher Base 

While facilitators will generally have
some working knowledge of research aims and computational methods across
the researchers they engage with, no facilitator can remember all
details of all researcher interactions over time. As a result, there are
several strategies for supplementing the facilitator’s own memory, many
of which are already built into the facilitation practices described
elsewhere in the *[Best Practices of Facilitation](http://aci-ref.github.io/facilitation_best_practices)*. For example, the notes
taken by facilitators during and after engagements or assistance
interactions will serve as a useful resource. If these are stored and
organized for easy searching, the facilitator will be able to easily
search for key terms related to the needs and interests of a researcher
or group that the facilitator is currently working with. Email history
(including emails within issue ticket systems) can be used in a similar
way to search for key terms that connect different researchers. Even
campus websites and those of specific research groups might be searched
via the web.


Facilitators should generally be on the look-out for potential
collaborations, especially when learning about a new researcher or
group, perhaps by mentioning other researcher contacts that come to
mind. Beyond real-time suggestions, the various notes kept by
facilitators to record researcher interactions might be consulted just
prior to or after an engagement or other interaction in order to
identify researchers with complementary work. Facilitators working in a
team environment can leverage the knowledge and experience of their
immediate team members and across external contacts, including staff in
other ACI roles (e.g. systems administrators, software specialists,
etc.). The final portion in this chapter discusses the importance of
leveraging contacts of other researchers and staff when identifying
researchers who might benefit from communicating with one another. 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="topics"></a>

## Build Connections around Topics

### Research Domain 

Opportunities to connect
researchers pursuing complementary or related research problems will
perhaps be the most obvious. For example, a single campus might have
medical and psychology researchers studying aspects of brain function,
and engineers developing new or existing imaging technologies and
analyses. While researchers with obviously overlapping research pursuits
are likely to already know of one another, they may not always be aware
of each other's most recent efforts. Surprisingly, researchers working
in the same hallway may not even realize opportunities to share
practices in using ACI resources. Furthermore, researchers with no prior
interaction may end up pursuing new projects that provide new
opportunities for knowledge sharing or collaboration. 

### Computational Methods 

Shared research topics and approaches may mean that researchers
share computational methods and practices. Additionally, experts
developing computational methods (e.g. from the computer sciences,
statistics, and mathematics) may be looking for “domain science”
problems to apply their methods to. Researchers using similar
computational and analytical methods for very different research domains
are much less likely to already know about one another. Examples of
methods that cross-cut across disciplines and that have been observed in
disparate ACI-using groups include:

* Markov-chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulations - observed in the social
sciences, statistics, geosciences, engineering, and beyond 
* solving partial differential equations (PDEs) - across the physical sciences
* natural language processing (NLP) - observed in the humanities,
sociology, psychology, geosciences, and computer sciences 
* RNAseq analysis - observed across various life and medical sciences 
* “open research”/"open science” practices - observed across domains

We will discuss the facilitation of multi-member communities, which have
been most successful in the case of bringing somewhat disparate
researchers together around similar practices that reach across domains,
later on in this chapter. 

### Software 

There are a large number of cases for
which the same software and programming languages may be used by
researchers who might connect around their use of ACI. For example,
MATLAB, Python, and R are frequently used for programming across
research domains, and some campuses have formed communities around these
languages. These may be further tied to a general research area (e.g.,
“R programming in biology”) for which the same modules or libraries are
frequently used. Beyond programming languages and practices, researchers
using the same third-party software may also benefit from connecting.
For example, some software for working with genetic sequences will be
used across a wide range of biological research areas. Research groups
using the same computational chemistry software may benefit from sharing
methods for optimizing the software performance on specific ACI systems.
When research groups across domains use commercial software with
licenses that are not supported by the campus, these researchers may
benefit not only from sharing software use practices for but also for
sharing licenses (e.g. Comsol, which is used across a number of research
domains for physical simulations). 

### Data 

Researchers may also find
commonalities and share practice around common data formats, methods for
producing or using similar data, or even the use of data from the same
sources. For example, researchers in the humanities, geology, and social
sciences (psychology, communication, etc.) may be able to share
practices or even costs for obtaining and analyzing data from social
media (e.g. Twitter). Similar opportunities may exist across research
domains that rely on global information systems (GIS) data, such they
they will benefit from sharing access, analysis, and visualization
practices. Facilitators might even help to coordinate the support of a
single, shared repository of large datasets, perhaps on an ACI resource
with which  the facilitator is associated, so that researchers do not
have to maintain separate, redundant copies for themselves. 

### Professional Roles and Practices 

Facilitators might also be able to connect
individuals — researchers and support staff — based upon professional
roles. Research students and staff who support research systems or who
develop software and computational workflows may benefit from sharing
practices across research units on a single campus. For example, the
University of Wisconsin-Madison has successfully formed a group for
research systems administrators, whose roles often require solutions
that are heavily matched and integrated with research processes. In the
chapter on *[Interfacing with Other ACI Personnel](../09-interface)*, we will discuss
additional strategies for networking with individuals in other ACI and
IT positions to enhance the ability of all individuals to meet
researcher needs, and to enhance the professional development of the
Facilitator.


Of course, researchers may share more than one of the above in common,
in which case there may be even greater potential for productive
knowledge exchange and collaboration. 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="self-sustaining"></a>

## Encourage Self-Sustaining Connections 

Overall, the goal of the facilitator should be to encourage
researchers and other participating individuals to leverage the
expertise of others and to sustain a connection for as long as is
beneficial to those involved. Some connections may only need one
communication or meeting instance for participating parties to gain
sufficient understanding and impact from one another. Furthermore,
interactions suggested by a facilitator may not necessarily lead to a
fruitful exchange or be perceived by participants as worthwhile into the
future, for a number of reasons that are out of the control of the
facilitator. For example, a facilitator might incorrectly perceive that
the methods of two research groups are similar, or groups with very
similar research interests and computational methods may see each other
more as competitors. Therefore, a facilitator maintaining some role in
this process should take into account participant perceptions and
expectations when determining when and how best to encourage future
interactions. If there are logistical barriers, such as busy participant
schedules or long distances for in-person meetings, the facilitator
might suggest approaches that better enable communication in these
circumstances (e.g. virtual meetings, less frequent meetings, email
follow-ups, etc.). 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="knowledge-exchange"></a>

# Coordinate Knowledge Exchange Between Researchers

Perhaps the most natural and frequently impactful connections are
one-to-one or one-to-many interactions between researchers for the
purpose of technology exchange. For example, a facilitator might match a
new user of an ACI resource with an existing user who has already
deployed the same software or computational approach. If the two
researchers are also from similar research domains or the same research
group and, therefore, share a similar vocabulary, they’ll likely
communicate and learn from each other even better than from the
facilitator (see discussions and references on peer-learning in
*[Education and Training of Researchers](../06-education/)*). To some extent, knowledge
exchange between peers can be a crucial component of the assistance and
education of individual researchers, and in a way that scales beyond the
facilitator’s own efforts.


After realizing that such a connection might be beneficial, the
facilitator should obtain permission from both parties before providing
a formal introduction. Depending on the context, the facilitator might
even join a first meeting or remain CC’d for email discussions - an
approach that can be important for ensuring best practices and
correcting initial misinformation. Generally, the facilitator should
step back after communication productively kicks off, but reiterate the
availability of any needed support and assistance, including
participation in any future discussions. Even when two researchers have
other, non-ACI-specific research aspects in common (e.g.
non-computational methods, model organisms, etc.), a facilitator may
mention these similarities and enable conversations between researchers
who might not have heard of one another. In this situation, the
facilitator’s role may simply be to introduce the work of one researcher
to another.


Importantly, the facilitator might work with knowledgeable individuals
with demonstrated success to create online documentation and other
shared training materials. Individuals with similar software or methods
might benefit from participating in group meetings or an email list, as
described below. The facilitation of formal and informal collaborations
is covered later in this chapter, but may also be an outcome of
initially connecting researchers based upon similarities in research and
ACI practices. 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="communities"></a>

# Promote the Formation of Communities 

For some instances
where a facilitator sees the potential for fruitful, repeated
interaction among individuals, it may be appropriate to form a community
or group around common interests, including any of the previously
described topics. For example, the facilitator may increasingly connect
researchers in communication around the same topic, and see a benefit of
an email list or regular meetings to facilitate group discussions and
technology exchange. Researchers may even come to facilitators or
similar staff to discuss the potential for a specific group they have in
mind, or to request assistance in initiating and promoting the group.

The most fruitful communities and groups may be those for which
researchers assemble around interests that reach beyond the limits of
individual departments and other academic boundaries. As previously
described, campus groups have been formed around specific statistical
methods, common software, reproducible programming practices,
computational genomics, and digital humanities, among other topics that
span departments and disciplines. Experience from ACI-REF member
institutions has also indicated significant benefits for group
participation when these groups are member-organized rather than
facilitator-organized. Therefore, several steps by which a facilitator
may help to initiate and contribute to a community/group are described
below. 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="interest"></a>

## Gauge Interest 

To support the initial formation of a community or
group, the facilitator and any interested individuals should first
leverage their existing interpersonal networks to identify potential
group members. Making contact with potential members will help to
determine whether forming a group will be perceived as worthwhile by a
critical number of participants and will inform how to proceed with the
remaining steps. For example, the facilitator might review notes kept
from researcher engagements to identify researchers with common
interests and then contact them to determine if they also see potential
benefits from group discussion. The facilitator could then assist
interested individuals in gathering together for a first meeting that
addresses the next step. 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="goals-format"></a>

## Establish Group Goals and Format 

Once together,
the individuals who have expressed interest should then discuss the
goals and topic(s) of focus for the group, perhaps in conversations
initially facilitated by the facilitator. Furthermore, the group should
decide logistics, such as meeting frequency and duration, in-person vs.
virtual interaction, location, whether to define meeting topics each
time, and the mode of communication (e.g. email lists, calendar invites,
etc.). Ideally, the group will also identify a point person, multiple
individuals, or a rotating individual to coordinate meetings and
facilitate group discussion. Some groups may simply meet on a monthly
basis with a very casual topic discussion format and simple reminder
email. 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="participation"></a>

## Facilitator Participation

The facilitator’s role and future
participation should also be discussed, recognizing the benefits of
leadership by a community member that is *not* the facilitator, so that
the group remains impactful to the participants in both content and
format. That said, some groups may benefit significantly by having a
facilitator at least present (either regularly or on occasion),
especially if the uniting topic of the group is closely related to the
use of ACI resources with which the facilitator is associated.

Regardless of ongoing participation in the group, there are a number of
ways the facilitator or relevant ACI organization might support
communities and groups. For example, the facilitator may assist with
organizational logistics (e.g. meetings, email lists, web site), or help
to integrate demos of ACI resources into meetings, if relevant. The
facilitator can also help promote the group to potential new members,
perhaps via established pathways for disseminating information about
ACI-related opportunities and events, as mentioned in previous chapters.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="collaborations"></a>

# Formal and Informal Collaborations 

The most transformative impacts of
connecting researchers may come from formal and even informal
collaborations, where researchers directly enable each other’s research
processes beyond the sharing of practices and peer-learning. Most
commonly, collaborations may naturally result from knowledge sharing and
communities where the facilitator has already played a prior role in
liaising initial interactions, such that little additional action is
required unless requested by the researchers.


Without prior connection, researchers might specifically ask a
facilitator if she is aware of anyone to collaborate with for the
purpose of achieving a specific research goal. For example, researchers
in computation- and methods-heavy fields (e.g. computer sciences,
engineering, mathematics, statistics, etc.) may be looking for a domain
specialist for application; conversely, researchers with domain
expertise might seek to work with a computational specialist or engineer
to help advance their research. For such a researcher-requested
collaboration contact that reaches outside of a researcher’s own domain,
identifying collaborators at other institutions should be considered if
there are no obvious intra-institutional options.


Researchers might also request to collaborate specifically with the
facilitator’s home organization or with another ACI campus provider,
especially when research goals require significant use of ACI resources
or intimate integration with specific ACI configurations. In these
cases, the facilitator may serve the additional role of bringing in
other ACI staff or matching the researchers with contacts in other
organizations. These participating individuals might also contribute to
funding proposals or letters of collaboration. Collaborations with ACI
providers may also include partial funding for personnel in the ACI
organization, including Facilitator time on specific activities for the
project, where this model may be important for long-term financial
support of staff in the ACI-providing organization. 

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="other-staff"></a>

# Utilize Relationships with Other ACI Staff 

Especially for the purpose of
enabling collaborations, facilitators may find that their own
professional network of other ACI staff are important for finding
researchers with common ACI interests and for supporting existing
connections. For example, the facilitator might leverage connections at
other institutions to identify a collaboration opportunity for a local
researcher. Or, a newly-formed group might request the one-time
attendance of staff from another ACI (or non-ACI) organization within
the facilitator’s network. For example, a group that meets to compare
their computational genomics approaches might like to hear about
emerging virtual server options provided by an ACI service that the
facilitator does not directly represent. In the case of multiple
facilitators at the same institution or ACI organization, this may mean
that facilitators regularly communicate about researcher interests in
order to share knowledge and identify collaboration opportunities. The
next chapter on *[Interfacing with Other ACI Personnel](../09-interface)* covers the
importance of building a professional network of other staff, both
intra- and inter-institutionally, to more holistically support
researcher needs.

Jump to: [top](#toc)
