---
layout: chapter
title: Interfacing with ACI Resource Providers
prev: 08-connections
next: ./
---

<a name="toc"></a>

*Building working relationships with other ACI staff. Liaising in the
exchange of expertise between ACI resource staff, including intra- and
inter-institutional connections. Translating user feedback to inform the
enhancement and optimization of ACI Resources.*

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Collaborating with ACI Staff in Your Working Group](#working-group)   
	2.1 [Coordinate with Other Facilitators](#facilitators)   
	2.2 [Establish Working Relationships with Other Personnel](#other-personnel)    
	2.3 [Communicate via Consistent Practices](#consistency)
3. [Building Connections beyond Your Direct Working Group](#beyond-working-group)   
	3.1 [Networking with Other ACI Staff at Your Institution](#on-campus)   
	3.2 [Leveraging Contacts Outside Your Home Institution](#off-campus)
4. [Toward Improving ACI Resources and Services](#improving)

<a name="introduction"></a>

# Introduction

Given the range of facilitation activities discussed in prior chapters
and the range of technical knowledge required to facilitate varying
researcher needs across applicable ACI, it should be natural but also
essential for Facilitators to build an interpersonal network of
coworkers and other professionals with expertise in applicable areas.
Certainly, no single individual will possess the entirety of skills and
experience necessary to identify appropriate technical and non-technical
solutions such as learning materials and human connections that will
enable researchers. Rather, Facilitators might think of themselves more
as a gateway to information for researchers, whether by way of
possessing that knowledge themselves, or by knowing how and where to
find additional information resources, which should include the
expertise of other ACI staff, both within and external to the
Facilitator’s immediate working group. More specifically, Facilitators
will frequently collaborate with other personnel when pursuing a variety
of facilitation and related activities, including:

* implementing an ACI Plan
* troubleshooting user issues
* sharing technical and non-technical knowledge or experiences
* coordinating with partners for education/training efforts
* contributing to discussions on enhancements to ACI services and
resources
* and many more, as appropriate

Furthermore, and as an indirect benefit of having a rich interpersonal
network for performing their own responsibilities, Facilitators may
enhance the capabilities of ACI-providing organizations and personnel by
enhancing professional connections between them. The following sections
of this chapter discuss various strategies for establishing working
relationships with other ACI staff and for growing a professional
network that accelerates positive outcomes for researchers and for
ACI-providing organizations.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="working-group"></a>

# Collaborating with ACI Staff in Your Working Group

First and foremost, Facilitators will collaborate regularly and
significantly with members of their immediate working group, especially
in supporting the day-to-day activities of working with researchers. The
immediate working group of a Facilitator of research computing services
will typically include other Facilitators, systems specialists, and
direct supervisors. Practices for collaboration, including coordinating
with other facilitators, developing relationships with other ACI
specialists, and establishing consistent communication practices, are
addressed in the following sections.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="facilitators"></a>

## Coordinate with Other Facilitators

As introduced in previous chapters, it is of utmost importance that
multiple Facilitators in the same working group coordinate their
activities in working directly with researchers. Facilitators will need
to coordinate record-keeping practices for engagement and assistance
activities so that other Facilitators can effectively assist the same
researchers in the future. Even when only one individual acts as the
primary Facilitator, consistent documentation of activities will help
other staff and Facilitator successors in the event that the Facilitator
is out of the office or leaves for a new position. Similarly,
Facilitators should communicate clearly and establish consistent
practices for determining ownership of support emails (perhaps via a
ticketing system). Facilitators will also likely collaborate heavily in
developing an overall researcher outreach and education/training
program, including the development of specific pieces of documentation
and other learning materials. For more details on inter-Facilitator
collaboration for these various activities, see the chapters on
*[Outreach](../02-outreach)*, *[Engagement with Researchers](../03-engagement)*, 
*[Assisting Researchers in the Use of ACI Resources](../05-assistance)*, 
and *[Education and Training of Researchers](../06-education)*.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="other-personnel"></a>

## Establish Working Relationships with Other Personnel

Within the Facilitator’s immediate ACI team, the Facilitator will
frequently depend on input, expertise, and effort other staff. Depending
on the services and staffing model, Facilitators should work to
cultivate positive working relationships with all staff within their
unit, but especially with those whose efforts most directly inform
facilitation practices and impact researchers. For example, a
Facilitator of research computing resources will likely collaborate with
systems administrators of compute and data storage systems, and perhaps
with programmers on staff who contribute to operations or collaborate on
research projects. Developing productive relationships with these
individuals will be especially important for a number of facilitation
activities, including:

* describing systems capabilities and how to take advantage of them when
working with researchers
* implementing any technical measures when supporting a researcher’s ACI
Plan with necessary systems adjustments
* troubleshooting when assisting a researcher with an issue
* guiding overall improvements to ACI resources managed by the group

Additional activities not covered here may also depend on interactions
with coworkers, especially for ACI services outside of the specific
context of research computing resources.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="consistency"></a>

## Communicate via Consistent Practices

Interactions between members of the working group will be significantly
enhanced if the Facilitator has consistent avenues for initiating
interactions with other staff, including regular meetings, email and/or
ticket systems, real-time messaging (e.g Slack or other chat
applications), and respectful practices for dropping into one-another’s
offices. Frequently, the Facilitator’s role in coordinating system
changes in response to researcher needs will entail practices of project
management and team coordination, with or without significant input from
supervisors. Practices for involving supervisors should also be
established for the team and for the Facilitator-supervisor
relationship, just as for working relationships with other staff. If the
Facilitator spends any amount of time supervising other personnel (even
for activities outside of “facilitation”) the Facilitator should seek to
coordinate activities across roles and activities, always for the
greatest outcome for researchers.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="beyond-working-group"></a>

# Building Connections beyond Your Direct Working Group

Because a Facilitator should act as an “honest broker” for researchers
by pointing them to the most appropriate ACI resources beyond the
Facilitator’s home organization, Facilitators will benefit from forming
relationships with individuals at other organizations outside of their
immediate working groups. For example, the Facilitator may point a
researcher to resources within other organizations on campus (or
off-campus) that provide complementary technology, including vendor
representatives and providers of national ACI resources. Specific
considerations for building professional connections across types of
other ACI-related organizations are discussed below.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="on-campus"></a>

## Networking with Other ACI Staff at Your Institution

Personnel within other organizations in the Facilitator’s home
institution will be crucial to Facilitators ability to advise
researchers in a range of ACI-related needs and services. For example, a
Facilitator at a campus research computing center will likely find it
helpful to connect with campus librarians, central IT and
college/department IT groups, and perhaps with related technology
providers such as a biotechnology/gene sequencing facility. Doing so
will allow the Facilitator to recommend these organizations and point
researchers to the appropriate representative when questions and needs
arise that are beyond the scope of the Facilitator’s home organization.

Processes for identifying these organizations and individuals will vary
across campus cultures and may become more apparent to a Facilitator
over time. Beyond web-based searching and word of mouth, the Facilitator
can attend events, talks, or trainings given by these organizations in
order to establish an initial connection with appropriate
representatives who work there. These individuals might attend events
and presentations given by the Facilitator’s organization, which present
additional opportunities for initiating contacts. After making an
initial connection, the Facilitator may wish to meet with the
individuals, to establish a working relationship and to determine the
best pathways for pointing researchers to each other’s resources. Most
successfully, ACI-REF Facilitators at larger institutions have even
established regular meetings with representatives across ACI-related
organizations, so that the various participants can coordinate their
services and introduce researchers to one another. Practices for
establishing these local groups on a campus are similar to those
discussed in *[Facilitating Research Connections](../08-connections)*, and later in this
chapter under “Liaising Connections between Other Personnel”. Overall,
the Facilitator and individuals they connect with across their
institution will likely have more collaborative relationships if they
focus on what is best for researchers and their projects.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="off-campus"></a>

## Leveraging Contacts Outside Your Home Institution

Drawing on the content in *[Enhancing ACI Knowledge](../07-aci_knowledge)*, there are a number of
researcher-facing resources that the Facilitator should be familiar with
and for which a personal connection will benefit researchers with whom
the Facilitator works with. For example, nationally-funded computing
resources such as XSEDE, the Open Science Grid (OSG), the National
Center for Genome Analysis Support (NCGAS), and other widely available
providers of computing resources and consulting services, are likely to
be important options for some researcher needs. Facilitators should take
advantage of opportunities to connect with representatives from these
organizations in order to liaise a researcher’s introduction to their
services. Less directly, Facilitators and their entire home organization
will benefit from connecting with staff in analogous roles and
organizations at other institutions, in part, to compare and contrast
service offerings, technology implementations, and support practices.
Conferences, professional development events, and cross-institutional
communities are most likely to provide opportunities for relevant
conversations; for example, many ACI-REF Facilitators participate in the
following events: XSEDE and OSG conferences, Advanced Research Computing
on Campuses (ARCC) meetings, Campus Research Computing (CaRC)
Infrastructures Consortium, and many others listed [here](https://aciref.org/project/conferences/).

Beyond researcher-facing services, there are several reasons why a
Facilitator may develop relationships with outside vendors of hardware,
software, and other technologies. As the major point of contact for
researchers using the ACI services of the Facilitator’s organization,
the Facilitator may end up coordinating the researcher purchases of
hardware as part of a ‘condo’ model of data storage or computing
capacity. For large additions of hardware within the Facilitator’s ACI
organization, the Facilitator may arrange meetings with vendors to find
the most appropriate additions to meet researcher needs. Facilitators
may also coordinate software license purchases that are shared across
research groups or made with central campus funds, may work with vendors
to explore new middleware options to enhance the user interface to local
resources, or may coordinate and contribute to trainings in using
vendor-provided software for local researchers. In all of these cases,
the best outcomes for researchers and their projects will be achieved if
the Facilitator can contribute positively to the relationship with
vendors in terms of specifying needs and representing use cases, as well
as negotiating prices. These relationships and interactions with vendors
should also be coordinated with supervisors and across the working
group.

As a transition to greater use of commercial cloud services for ACI is
on the horizon, these growing resources for various computation and data
services hold an increasingly important place in the full set of
services that researchers and Facilitators should consider across ACI
needs. Therefore, the Facilitator should take advantage of opportunities
to connect with representatives of these organizations (perhaps at
conferences and vendor showcases) in order to understand the services
and establish a point of contact for seeking answers to future
questions.

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="improving"></a>

# Toward Improving ACI Resources and Services

Beyond the goal of directly enabling researchers in their use of ACI
across a variety of service providers, the connections that a
Facilitator makes with other personnel can and should be leveraged to
improve ACI resources across organizations. In order to explore
improvements to in-house ACI resources with coworkers, the Facilitator
can leverage known examples from organizations providing similar or
overlapping services. Facilitators should also explore ways to
constructively inform the service offerings of other resource providers,
whether on-campus, off-campus, or commercial, and with specific
attention to feedback from researchers.

Similarly, the Facilitator and his/her organization should seek feedback
from other service providers, especially when that feedback directly
reflects researcher perspectives and evolving needs. Within an
institution, researchers and ACI providers will benefit when
Facilitators can help various providers to coordinate complementary
services that researchers can easily transition between, while also
optimizing the full spectrum of services and addressing potential
redundancies. Because of their exposure to researcher struggles and
practices across the various facilitation activities covered in these
*[Best Practices](../..)*, the perspectives of Facilitators and similar individuals
at other organizations should be leveraged constantly when identifying
opportunities to improve ACI resources. More detailed examination of
using feedback *and* user behavior metrics to improve ACI resources is
covered in the next chapter on *Assessment and Metrics*.

Jump to: [top](#toc)
