<h1>Entrance Survey</h1>
An Entrance Survey is designed to be given at account creation or introductory training (if required for resource use) to all users of the ACI resource.  This survey has two purposes: 

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
   <li>Allow both the ACI-REF program and the institution to gather demographics of the user base</li>
   <li>Understand user needs and experience</li>
</ul>
</div>

This document contains a suggested introduction and a variety of possible questions for an entrance survey.  Not all questions included here would be necessary; facilitators should choose questions that are relevant to their resources.  A sample implementation is here: https://docs.google.com/a/wisc.edu/forms/d/13k9AXGwl2Ih737bqzi_w4dj8IRYMs1CMAL0ZizbyPxI/edit


<h2>Introduction</h2>

Thanks for taking this moment to tell us a little about yourself and your background. We ask that you complete this survey as completely as possible. We ask that you be rigorously honest, to enable a clearer evaluation of your current  requirements and knowledge base,  thus allowing for  more targeted response to your needs.

Again, thank you for your input.  

<h2>Question Bank</h2>

Name

Campus ID/username

Email address

Department

Lab/PI

How would you classify your lab's domain science?

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
   <li>Chemistry</li>
<li>CS/Engineering</li>
<li>Physical Sciences</li>
<li>Life Sciences</li>
<li>Social Sciences</li>
<li>Math/Statistics</li>
<li>Other</li>
</ul>
</div>

In what area were you formally trained?

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
   <li>Chemistry</li>
<li>CS/Engineering</li>
<li>Physical Sciences</li>
<li>Life Sciences</li></li>
<li>Social Sciences</li>
<li>Math/Statistics</li>
<li> Other</li>
</ul>
</div>

Please tell us about your familiarity with the following computing concepts or methodologies:

(micro level)
<style>
table {
    width:100%;
}
table, th, td {
    border: 1px solid black;
    border-collapse: collapse;
}
</style>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td>Never heard of it</td>
    <td>Heard of it but never tried it</td>
    <td>Novice</td>
    <td>Use regularly</td>
    <td>Fluent and experienced</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Unix command line</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Installing/compiling software in unix</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Writing scripts</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>HPC/HTC/Cluster systems</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Use of a batch/scheduling system</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Cloud computing</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Large disk arrays</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Software defined (on-demand) networks</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


What software/programming language are you currently using (list specialized packages or libraries if relevant)? 

What computing resources are you currently using to do your research?  

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
   <li>personal computer</li>
<li>desktop workstation</li>
<li>research group resources (lab server, VM)</li>
<li>on-campus compute cluster</li>
<li>cloud (e.g. Amazon)</li>
<li>national computing centers (e.g. through XSEDE)</li> 
<li>none</li>
<li>other</li>
</ul>
</div>

Describe a typical computing problem that you have run in the past: 

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
   <li>description</li>
<li>input data size</li>
<li>output data size</li>
<li>time to run</li>
<li>number of cores</li>
<li>special requirements</li>
</ul>
</div>

How did you hear about us?

Would you be interested in meeting with a consultant (free of charge) anytime during the next six months to help you optimize your work?

 ____  Yes   ____  Maybe    ____  No

Is there anything else you'd like to share about your computing practices or methods?  

