<h1>Engagement Evaluation </h1>
The Engagement Evaluation is an informal survey/assessment, designed to be used after meetings or engagements with users, but not necessarily after each engagement. There are two pieces to the evaluation below: 

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
   <li>general information, which could mostly be provided by the facilitator</li>
<li>a series of interview questions, which could be administered to the researcher in person or via a survey tool</li> 
</ul>
</div>
Depending on the goal of this evaluation, these pieces can be mixed and matched in order to: 
<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
   <li>track specific users and/or projects in a standardized manner</li>
  <li>obtain feedback on facilitation interactions in order to adjust and improve future interaction</li>
  <li>understand the impact of ACI-REF interactions</li>
</ul>
</div>
<h2>Engagement Information</h2>

1. Name/UserID

2. Dept

3. PI/group

4. Facilitator

5. Date (range) of Interaction

6. Reason for contact 

    1. ____ 	Help with grant proposal

    2. ____ 	Help via ticketing system (for items not listed here)

    3. ____ 	Have ACI-REF speak at lab/group meeting (or research gathering)

    4. ____     Discuss Sstorage options
    
    5. ____ 	Discuss compute options

    6. ____ 	Use an high-performance or high-throughput system (cluster)

    7. ____ 	Use one or more software packages

    8. ____ 	Install software

    9. ____ 	Scale a functioning program to HPC/HTC

    10. ____ 	Optimize/troubleshoot a workflow

    11. ____ 	Develop or adopt a workflow

    12. ____ 	Other ______________________________________________________________
    

7. Rate engagement (1-5 scale)

<h2>Engagement Interview</h2>

Give a 3 sentence description of your research

Describe how ACI resources are a critical component of your research

What progress have you made?

What roadblocks have you had?

Describe what would or would not have been possible without the help of an ACI-REF (e.g. save XX amount of time, started a new line of research, etc).:

Please list any publications that were accelerated or improved from the help of an ACI-REF:

Did you use the skills & expertise you gained from the ACI-REF to assist or train others?

Other grad students?					____  Yes	____  No

Other post-docs?						____  Yes	____  No

Other faculty?							____  Yes	____  No

Any suggestions for how we can improve our interactions/(relationship)/collaboration?

