An Annual or Exit Survey is designed to be given 1) once a year, either to all or selected resource users, or 2) to users who are closing their accounts. This survey has the following purposes: 

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
<li>Measure impact of ACI-REF assistance using metrics of experience, time saved, publications and other research outcomes</li>
<li>Gather feedback from users on how to improve</li>
</ul>
</div>

This document contains a suggested introduction and a variety of possible questions.  Not all questions included here would be necessary; facilitators should choose questions that are relevant to the information they want to gather. 

<h1>Annual or Exit Survey</h1>

<h2>Suggested Introduction</h2>

Thank you for taking the time to complete this survey. Your responses here on the use of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure (ACI) resources (e.g. cluster or cloud computing, high speed/software-defined networks, large storage arrays) will be used to gauge the impact of the ACI-REF program, both locally and nationally. We appreciate your honesty and answering to the best of your ability. Again, we appreciate your time and thank you for your cooperation.

<h2>Suggested Questions</h2>

Name or LoginID

Demographic info (Skip these questions if this data already on file or collected in a previous survey):
<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square"><li>Campus ID/username</li>
<li>Email address</li>
<li>Lab/PI</li>	
<li>Department	</li>
</ul>
</div>
First consultation date

Please indicate your current familiarity with the following computing concepts or methodologies:

<style>
table {
    width:100%;
}
table, th, td {
    border: 1px solid black;
    border-collapse: collapse;
}
</style>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td></td>
    <td>Never heard of it</td>
    <td>Heard of it but never tried it</td>
    <td>Novice</td>
    <td>Use regularly</td>
    <td>Fluent and experienced</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Unix command line</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Installing/compiling software in unix</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Writing scripts</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>HPC/HTC/Cluster systems</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Use of a batch/scheduling system</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Cloud computing</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Large disk arrays</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Software defined (on-demand) networks</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>


For which aspects of your work did you consult an ACI-REF (select all that apply):
<table>
 
<tr><td>_____	Help with grant proposal</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Help via ticketing system (for items not listed here)</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Have ACI-REF speak at lab/group meeting (or research gathering)</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Discuss storage options</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Discuss compute options</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Use an high-performance or high-throughput system (cluster)</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Use one or more software packages</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Install software</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Scale a functioning program to HPC/HTC</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Optimize/troubleshoot a workflow</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Develop or adopt a workflow</td></tr>
<tr><td>_____	Other ______________________________________________________________</td></tr>

</table>

Describe how ACI resources are a critical component of your research

Please tell us about your research outcomes that were made possible by your ACI-REF interactions. Or, if more appropriate, what may not have been possible.

Please tell us about additional outcomes made possible from ACI-REF assistance (sucn as papers, psters, dissertaions, Funding, Awards, distinctions, postions, Collaborations) </li>

As best to your ability, please estimate the approximate time that you saved by working with an ACI-REF, if applicable (please check one): ____ Hours	____ Days   ____ Weeks	____  Months  ____  N/A

Did you use the skills & expertise you gained from the ACI-REF to assist others:
<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
<li>Other grad students?				    _____ Yes	_____ No</li>
<li>Other post-docs?						_____ Yes	_____ No</li>
<li>Other faculty?							_____ Yes	_____ No</li>
</ul>

Have you used these skills in other communication methods not related to scholarly articles? (e.g. blog posts, tweets?)					____ Yes	____ No 

Did you use any other alternatives to accomplish your goals?
<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
<li> ____ 	ACI-REF documentation</li> 	
<li> ____	Other documentation</li>    
<li> ____  On-campus persons</li> 
<li> ____	ACI-REF training</li> 
<li> ____	Other training</li> 
<li> ____ Off-campus persons</li> 
</ul>

Are there any other persons that we should contact who could use our assistance?

Do you have any suggestion/comments/for improvements?</li>

Might we use some of this information for our web site?		____ Yes	____ No

If so, do you wish to be anonymized?				____ Yes	____  No


